Practice Guidelines

Gossamer Spider Web of Trust (GSWoT)

Revision # Date       Editor      Notes

001        2009-10-25 M. Daigle   Original Version

002        2011-01-29 S. Blystone Removed Biglumber References


 1.         Gossamer Spider Web of Trust (GSWoT) - The Organization

 

1.1         Gossamer Spider Web of Trust Top-Level Key

 

1.2         GSIntroducers - The Web of Introducers

 

1.2.1         Qualification of GSIntroducers

 

1.2.2         Identifying a GSWoT GSIntroducer

 

1.2.3         GSWoT GSIntroducer ID

 

1.3         Becoming a GSWoT GSIntroducer

 

1.3.1         Making Application

 

1.3.2         Binding the Application

 

1.4         Introduction of New GSIntroducer

 

1.5         Registrar and Review Committee

 

1.5.1         The Application Review Committee

 

1.5.2         The Registration Announcement

 

1.6         Installation of New GSIntroducer

 

1.7         Public Key Resources

 

1.7.1         Public Key "Etiquette"

 

1.7.2         Revocation

 

1.7.3         Resigned Keys

 

1.8         Confidentiality

 

1.9         Presence

 

 

2.         Affiliates, Partners

 

 

3.         Recognized Authorities

 

3.1         Dynamic List of Authorities

 

 

4.         Certification by GSIntroducers (Key Signing)

 

4.1         Third Party Reliance

 

4.2         Technical Limitations

 

4.3         Signature Discrimination

 

4.4         Traditional Key Signing

 

4.5         Remote Certification

 

4.5.1         Limitations of Remote Certification

 

4.6         Multiple UserID's

 

4.7         Trust Signatures

 

4.7.1         Trust Signing of GSIntroducers

 

 

5.         Policy Sharing

 

 

===================================================================== Purpose

This document describes the procedures by which GSIntroducers will conduct the
business of authentication and certification of Recognized and Non-Recognized
key owners; and to which they solemnly agree to be bound. This document also
describes the function of the organization and the expectations placed upon the
GSIntroducers.

 

Definitions

[See  end of document]

 

 

1. Gossamer Spider Web of Trust (GSWoT) - The Organization

The Gossamer Spider Web of Trust is an innovative and progressive organization
of PGP enthusiasts that strives to bring confidence to the OpenPGP community in
regards to the quality of certification signatures that builds the web of
trust. In addition to directly certifying keys through its introducers, the
GSWoT bridges the certifications of compatible web of trust groups and
Certification Authorities into the PGP web of trust. The GSWoT extends a web of
confidence that starts with its Web of Introducers (individually called,
"GSIntroducers").

 

 

1.1 Gossamer Spider Web of Trust Top-Level Key

The GSWoT top-level key is used exclusively to certify the signing key of
Recognized Authorities, Affiliates and individual GSIntroducers. The Gossamer
Spider Web of Trust Top-Level Key should be identified solely by it's
Fingerprint:  D08CB376DE5F9609AAEB67637A921BC23C4A1809.

To install the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust vertically, the Gossamer Spider Web
of Trust Top-Level Key must be imported into a compatible OpenPGP keyring and
given explicit trust as an Introducer to a depth of no less than two (2).

 

 

1.2 GSIntroducers - The Web of Introducers

The GSWoT Web of Introducers is established through reciprocal trust signing
between GSIntroducers. Each GSIntroducer certifies the other as a Trusted
Introducer to a minimum certification depth of one (1), also referred to as a
Level 01 Introducer. This signing practice creates a Web of Trust between all
GSIntroducers, and automatically includes all the keys in the wild that trust
any one or more GSIntroducers as an Introducer either explicitly or through
Hierarchal Trust established with the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust Top-Level
Key to form a non-isolated set of Web of Trust relationships. The Web of
Introducers is composed of key owners whose identity has been authenticated by
process directly within the organization or by a Recognized Authority (see  
Section 3). Each GSIntroducer within the Web of Introducers has agreed to
perform certifications of subscriber keys according to the guidelines outlined
in this document.

 

 

1.2.1 Qualification of GSIntroducers

GSIntroducers supporting the web of trust products specified in  Section 3,
Notaries Public, and officers of organizations, commissions and other bodies
who are responsible for authentication of its members can make application to
become a GSIntroducer. The latter may qualify to apply as Registrar under the
Affiliate provision in  Section 2.

 

 

1.2.2 Identifying a GSIntroducer

A GSIntroducer is recognized by the possession and access to a private key
corresponding to a public key containing a userid that follows the naming
convention as prescribed under  Section 1.2.3 and is certified by the Gossamer
Spider Web of Trust Top-Level Key.

 

 

1.2.3 GSIntroducer ID

The GSIntroducer ID (GSID) is constructed to uniquely identify a GSIntroducer,
and is composed of the member's full name, and an email address in the
gswot.org domain. A comment may optionally be included. Only a GSIntroducer ID
appearing as a userid following the above convention and certified with trust
by the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust Top-Level Key positively identifies a
GSIntroducer. Note that previous conventions should not be treated as invalid,
but should be scrutinized only for the existence of a valid certification
signature with trust issued from the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust Top-Level
Key.

Note a GSID with a certification only signature issued from the Gossamer Spider
Web of Trust indicates the key was enrolled by a GSIntroducer until the time
the signature was issued, and is now removed from the GSWoT trust path. The key
owner may still be a GSIntroducer and may have enrolled a replacement key, or
he/she may no longer be a member.

The email part of the GSIntroducer ID (GSID) is an internal artifact and may
not indicate a valid email address to relying parties. GSIntroducers may opt to
enable their gswot.org mail service.

 

 

1.3 Becoming a GSIntroducer

A person, organization or commercial entity can make application to have a
signing key certified and entered into the Web of Introducers. Organizations
and commercial entities are referred to  Section 2 - Affiliates, Partners. An
individual who performs assurances for a web of trust digital signature product
identified in  Section 3.1; or is a Notary Public in Canada or the United
States; or has earned three (3) GSIntroducer certifications can make
application to the Web of Introducers.

 

 

1.3.1 Making Application

To make application to the Web of Introducers, the applicant will affirm to
have read this document, and submitted an application such as is available from
the official GSWoT home ( http://www.gswot.org).

 

 

1.3.2 Binding the Application

Upon successful application (see  Section 1.5) the applicant will be requested
to issue a Level 02 Trust Signature to the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust
Top-Level Key. The signature will be reciprocated with a Level 01 Trust
Signature issued by the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust Top-Level Key.

 

 

1.4 Introduction of New GSIntroducer

Upon successful completion of the application process, a new GSIntroducer is
formally introduced into the Web of Introducers. The method of delivery of the
introduction may change from time to time, however the authentication of
material and keys is to be considered critical and must comply with  Sections
1.5 and  1.5.1.

 

 

1.5 Registrar and Review Committee

The Registrar will receive and forward an application to the Application Review
Committee. A new GSIntroducer will be installed only after a quorum of
recipients have validated the candidate's credentials and accepted the
application. Recipients will affirm their acceptance by issuing a digital
signature applied to the applicant's public key to be included in the
Registration Announcement. The Application Review Committee may initiate the
exchange of signatures with the new GSIntroducer upon reception of the
Registration Announcement, and the new member should strive to reciprocate all
trust signatures included in the Registration Announcement without delay. See  
Section 4.7.1, "Trust Signing of GSIntroducers" for further details.

 

 

1.5.1 The Application Review Committee

The Review Committee is comprised of not fewer than five (5) active
GSIntroducers who have volunteered to review registration applications.
Recipients (Committee Members) must honor receipt requests for registration
applications so that the Registrar can discover if a review quorum will be
satisfied. Receipt requests must be acknowledged within forty-eight (48) hours
of being sent.

Registration applications must be reviewed and responded to the Registrar
within forty-eight (48) hours of acknowledgement. Recipients will affirm their
validation or failure to validate the application using the prescribed form.
Approval by no fewer than three (3) recipients and where no objections are
submitted in at least 48 hours shall warrant the recommendation to enroll the
applicant's signature key in the Web of Introducers.

"Hours" in this and all Sections shall be reconciled according to this
document's definition of "Day". For the purpose of notice, a document is deemed
sent at midnight UTC on the calendar day under UTC at the time of submission
(ie, a document sent at Jan 01 23:00 EDT (Jan 02 04:00 UTC) is deemed sent at
Jan 02 24:00 UTC). Expiry and maturity occur at midnight UTC.

 

 

1.5.2 The Registration Announcement

The Registration Announcement serves to introduce a new GSIntroducer to the Web
of Introducers. The document will include information describing the new
GSIntroducer, any special notes, and the public key of the new GSIntroducer
certified by the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust Top-Level Key. An additional copy
of the public key will contain the certifications of the GSIntroducers
responsible for reviewing the application.

 

 

1.6 Installation of New GSIntroducer

Upon acceptance into the Web of Introducers, a new GSIntroducer will accept and
maintain a subscription to the announcement mail list.

The new GSIntroducer may initiate key exchanges with the GSIntroducers listed
in the directory that have not already exchanged keys following the application
review process.

The following is a guide to key exchange:

1. Sign the GSIntroducer's key with a trust signature to a depth of one (1)
(Level 01 Introducer). Sign the userid conforming to the conditions in any of
1a through 1d, providing it is certified by the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust
Top-Level Key. The userid matching the GSIntroducer's application form must be
signed.

   a. GSID
   b. Proper name, and enrolled email address
   c. Proper name only (free-form userid)
   d. Proper name, and other email address

   *See  Sections 4.6 and  4.7.1 of Practice Guidelines

Sign only userid's that you have validated yourself and/or userid's that have
been certified by the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust Top-Level Key. Typically,
this is all userid's contained in the public key included in the Registration
Announcement.

2. Submit the signed key to the user directly via electronic mail.

3. You should later receive your signed key directly via return electronic
mail.

4. Update your public key to a PGPnet Keyserver.

   http://pgp.surfnet.nl (also ldap on port 11370)
   http://pgp.mit.edu

 

1.7 Public Key Resources

 All GSIntroducers should update their public key to a PGPnet key server.

   http://wwwkeys.pgp.net

GSIntroducers are recommended to maintain GSIntroducer keys on their local
keyring according to the cautions described in  Section 4.2 ("Technical
Limitations").

 

 

1.7.1 Public Key "Etiquette"

It is commonly perceived to be unacceptable to publish another person's public
key certificate to a publicly accessible key server without the express consent
of the public key owner. GSIntroducers are urged to respect this rule and
verify their application preferences prevent the automatic submission of public
keys to a key server (ie, after applying a certification signature).

 

 

1.7.2 Revocation

Revocation of a GSIntroducer's key must be submitted to the announcement mail
list (see  Section 1.8) and a PGPnet public key server (see  Section 1.7).
Submission to additional resources is encouraged.

Revocation of a GSIntroducer's signature on another GSIntroducer's key may only
occur under the direction of the Registrar responsible for introducing the key
that is to be revoked, or under the direction of a committee established to
treat the individual case or disciplinary issues in general. The revocation of
reciprocal signatures is thus reserved for cases of a GSIntroducer being
ejected from the organization for breach of trust or other disobedience to the
guidelines as established in this document.

 

 

1.7.3 Resigned Keys

 GSIntroducers resigned from the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust will be
disconnected from the organizational trust chain only. Trust signatures from
the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust Top-Level Key will be revoked.

To preserve the identity assurance earned through past participation, the
Gossamer Spider Web of Trust Top-Level Key will issue a certification signature
to any qualified userid.

1.8 Confidentiality

The GSWoT Document Sharing Key ( 0xF10CACE18A241470, aka GSWoT Correspondance
Key) shall be used to protect personal information published on any remotely
accessible media and including the transmission of email. The purpose of the
GSWoT Document Sharing Key is to reduce the ciphertext size by limiting
encryption to one recipient in addition to making ciphertext available to
future GSIntroducers.

GSIntroducers will generally have no cause to encrypt using the GSWoT Document
Sharing Key save and except for the protection of personal information
published on remote servers, "away" notices that may be published to the forum,
or other personally sensitive information that should be protected.

GSIntroducers are urged to neither generate nor trust digital signatures
associated with the GSWoT Document Sharing Key.

The private key of the GSWoT Document Sharing Key must be kept private and
secure. The use of a regularly changing strong passphrase is encouraged. For
ease of use, the private key may be stored unencrypted providing it resides on
encrypted media protected by a strong passphrase. Hint: You may set the GSWoT
Document Sharing Key passphrase to the same as your primary keypair to avoid
interfering with ease-of-use through passphrase caching.

The public key certificate should not be submitted to any public key server
(ref.  Section 1.7.1).

 

 

1.9 Presence

The Official Home of the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust is  http://www.gswot.org/
.

There are four (4) mail lists representing the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust:

GSWoT Home - home-subscribe@lists.gswot.org

This public forum is for open discussion about the GSWoT and the web of trust
model in general. GSIntroducers are encouraged to subscribe to this forum to
assist in responding to questions from the public. Posts should be
clear-signed.

The mailing list is mirrored on Gmane Mail to News news://news.gmane.org/
gmane.comp.security.pgp.gswot http://news.gmane.org/thread.php?group=
gmane.comp.security.pgp.gswot 


GSIntroducer - introducer-subscribe@lists.gswot.org

This web presence is restricted to GSIntroducers and includes a forum for
discussing all business pertaining to the evolution of the project.
GSIntroducers are encouraged to subscribe to this forum to help each other
acclimate to our procedures as well as to assist in the evolution of those
procedures and other policy items. Posts should be clear-signed.


GSIntroducer-announce - announce-subscribe@lists.gswot.org
This web presence is restricted to GSIntroducers. The mailing list is used to
publish general announcements and most importantly, Registration Announcements.

Subscription to this mailing list is mandatory. GSIntroducers must maintain a
subscription with active delivery enabled. Posts should be clear-signed.


GSWoT-ARC - arc-subscribe@lists.gswot.org
This web presence is restricted to GSIntroducers who opt to serve on the
Application Review Committee.

 

 

2. Affiliates, Partners

Affiliates and Partners are persons, organizations and commercial entities
whose application or invitation to the Web of Introducers has been mutually
accepted. These can include compatible web of trust initiatives, interest
groups, professional associations, community organizations and employers.

An Affiliate or Partner will register a signing key to perform Registrar duties
within their organization. The Affiliated Registrar's signing key is then
certified by the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust Top-Level Key as a Level 02
Introducer.

 

 

3. Recognized Authorities

The geographic dispersal of GSIntroducers severely limits the ability of the
Web of Introducers to meet with subscribers to authenticate their identity. For
this reason, and to authenticate the identity of applicants to the Web of
Introducers, the reliance upon Certification Authorities (CA) and other strict
authentication processes has provided the means to satisfy our requirement for
an extensive certification of identity.

 

 

3.1 Dynamic List of Authorities

The following list of Recognized Authorities is not static. Applicants and
subscribers whose identity has been authenticated to earn a certificate product
compatible with this document can request the Issuer be considered for
inclusion under this Section to improve their qualification. (see also  Section
1.2 p2).

Certificate products from the following Authorities are acceptable proofs of
identity:

CAcert ECCP ( www.cacert.org)
*Trusted* certificates (50 or more trust points)

CAcert High Trust OpenPGP ( www.cacert.org)
Signing KeyID:  0xD2BB0D0165D0FD58

*Only signatures issued after June 1, 2007 are accepted

Juricert ( www.juricert.com) Authenticated Adobe certificates

Juricert ( www.juricert.com) Authenticated IDscript ( www.idscript.com)
TrustMint 

 

4. Certification by GSIntroducers (Key Signing)

The Gossamer Spider Web of Trust aims to introduce only positively certified
keys which have been scrutinized to belong to authentic individuals,
organizations or other entities.

 

 

4.1 Third Party Reliance

The Gossamer Spider Web of Introducers strives to maintain strong,
evidence-based certifications. Certification quality is to be regarded as "low
assurance". Absolutely no warranty of any kind is implied by the certifications
applied by the Gossamer Spider Web of Trust Top-Level Key or by the
certifications of the Web of Introducers. Relying parties are urged to require
additional certification for commerce, legal, and mission critical
applications.

 

 

4.2 Technical Limitations

The PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) application by PGP Corporation ( www.pgp.com)
does not support variable certification signature types. PGP generates only
generic (type 0x10) certification signatures. GnuPG (GNU Privacy Guard) by GNU
( www.gnupg.org) does support variable certification signature types. 

 

4.3 Signature Discrimination

All generic certification signatures applied by GSIntroducers shall be
determined to be a casual certification of a userid and public key (type 0x12).
GSIntroducers who use PGP exclusively will apply a certification signature in
the general manner with a generic certification signature (type 0x10).
GSIntroducers who have access to GnuPG must apply a positive certification
signature (type 0x13) with the exception of remote certifications (see  Section
4.5).

 

 

4.4 Traditional Key Signing

A GSIntroducer will meet with a key owner in person to witness appropriate and
sufficient documentation that is commonly held to provide evidence of identity
(EOI) in the key owner's homeland. The EOI must include at least one form of
government-issued photo identification.

 

 

4.5 Remote Certification

A GSIntroducer may certify the public key of an owner who successfully
authenticates with a digital signing product issued or otherwise certified by a
Recognized Authority. The GSIntroducer will issue a casual (type 0x12)
certification signature to any key that is being remotely certified.
GSIntroducers who use PGP exclusively will apply a certification signature in
the general manner with a generic certification signature (type 0x10).

 

 

4.5.1 Limitations of Remote Certification

A GSIntroducer must refuse to remotely certify a subscriber's key that contains
two (2) GSIntroducer signatures that were applied under the Remote
Certification allowance.

This rule does not prevent a GSIntroducer from certifying the same key via
Traditional Key Signing.

This rule does not apply to reciprocal signing within the Web of Introducers.

 

 

4.6 Multiple UserID's

The OpenPGP certificate format permits the generation of multiple userid's
associated with a single primary key. GSIntroducers must certify only userid's
that have been validated. The lack of a GSIntroducer's certification of a
userid should not be interpreted to invalidate the userid. For example, a Photo
ID could not possibly be validated under the Remote Certification allowance,
but this should not indicate that the Photo ID does not bear a true likeness of
the public key owner. Likewise, untested email addresses will not be certified
but should not be interpreted to be invalid.

 

 

4.7 Trust Signatures

GSIntroducers are free to extend their personal web of trust using their GSWoT
signing key by applying trust signatures to the keys they trust as introducers
(entire  Section 4 applies).

 

 

4.7.1 Trust Signing of GSIntroducers

GSIntroducers must apply an appropriate certification signature (type 0x12 or
type 0x13) including Level 01 trust to the keys of other GSIntroducers.

A new GSIntroducer will exchange signatures with all GSIntroducers in the
Application Review Committee who have signed the new GSIntroducer's key
immediately following installation to the Web of Introducers.

The new GSIntroducer is encouraged to seek additional signature exchanges with
the remaining GSIntroducers.

 

 

5. Policy Sharing

Trust policies can be shared between OpenPGP users through trust signatures.
GnuPG users can also manage trust policies exclusively through explicit signing
of keys on the local keyring. Trust policies can be shared between GnuPG users
using the classic trust model through the import of ownertrust export files.

 

 

Definitions

 

> Authentication
  see also; Message Authentication
            Sender Authentication

The verification of the identity of a person or organization.


> Certificate

A document containing a cryptographic key, personally identifying information,
and other information certified by the owner (self-signed certificate) or a
signing authority.


> Certification Authority (CA)
  also; Certificate Authority

An organization that certifies certificate material; may also perform
authentication services.


> Certificate Revocation List

A document issued by a Certification Authority that lists subscriber keys that
have been revoked.


> Day

A period of twenty-four (24) hours beginning at midnight, UTC.


> Document

A record that conveys information.


> Evidence of Identity (EOI)

A document that substantiates a claim to identity.


> Keypair

A cryptographic public key and corresponding private key.


> Message Authentication

A method of proving the source of a message is authentic; unchanged.


> OpenPGP
  also; PGP
  also; PGP Message Format
  also; Inline PGP

A proposed IETF standard for the exchange of cryptographic messages and
certificate material.


> PGP/MIME

A MIME implementation of the OpenPGP message format.


> Public Key
  also; Certificate

The shared key belonging to a keypair; used for encryption of documents to or
decryption of signatures generated by the corresponding private key.


> Private Key

The key that is required for generating digital signatures and decryption of
documents encrypted to the corresponding public key.


> Recognized [Entity]

A person, organization or commercial entity whose signing key and certification
practices and/or authentication standards is observed to meet or exceed those
set forth in this document.

> Registrar

An admitting officer. A person responsible for maintaining records and
admittance.


> S/MIME

An IETF standard for secure email.


> Sender Authentication

A method of proving the authorship of a message.


> Subscriber

A person, organization or commercial entity who has requested certification of
a public key by a signing authority.


> X.509

An IETF standard format for the storage of cryptographic key material and
Certificate Revocation Lists.


